https://t.co/JmENTwGjCy
HW Insiders Award™ Program OverviewThe HW Insiders Award™ program recognizes your organization's operational all-stars — those insiders that are your company's best-kept secret, yet vital to its success.

If your company or team has an insider that is making all the difference in helping your organization achieve success then nominate them today.

Nominees must be working in the U.S. housing economy, which includes businesses in residential mortgage lending, servicing, investments, or real estate. Each application must provide tangible evidence of significant impact within their individual company, primarily focused upon the past 12 months.

  

 We desire to recognize those who serve their companies in outstanding ways — through operations, product development, hiring, marketing campaigns, or making things more efficient. Don't let that list limit you — we aren't as focused on titles but on the value this person brings to the company. Put another way, what this person does is not as important as how they do it (excellently, stunningly well).

  

 We want to celebrate people who are often their company's best-kept secret: the one person known within the company as a critical part of that company's success, but who may or may not be as well known throughout the larger industry. That's the genesis of the word Insiders — absolutely essential to the performance of their companies within the housing space. Impact doesn't always have to be measured in quantifiable terms, but the more specifics you can provide on why they are valuable, the stronger the application will be.

An operational all-star at your company might look quite different from one at another company. We are looking for the unsung heroes that make up the secret sauce in your organization. These are key contributors that should be recognized for their outstanding contribution to your organization and to the housing industry.

Here are a couple of quite different examples of the types of candidate the HW Insiders Award™ covers:

Laurie is Mortgage Loan Officer with over 25 years of lending experience. Laurie freely shares her expertise to personally assist numerous families with their financing needs.  Laurie is a rock star with an extensive background in all facets of mortgage lending, including management and underwriting.  Laurie is well versed in all types of mortgages; from Conventional, FHA/VA - Jumbo to Construction/203k Rehab loans, Home Equity lines, and everything in between.

Frank is a real estate agent who is killing it over at his Keller Williams branch in Houston. He is also a licensed appraiser. He continues to outperform on residential appraisals, but obtained his real estate sales license so that he could help others with their home buying/selling needs.  Frank loves his job and his branch loves him.